Feb 4, 1973
Morning Service
“The Master is Come”




Will year was 1642 a dark year for England? Oliver Cromwell is marching is New Model Army, back and forth, getting ready for worse, things to come, because the Revolution was already in full swing in England, but over on the continent, there was a man in Amsterdam who had already made a notable name for himself. But man was Rembrandt a painter. In that year, he decided that he was going to paint his Masterpiece and he did. The night watch has, it has popularly but known a large painting, even to thy almost billboard size, but they say was larger when he did it originally. But this kind of summarize, not only all the work that he had done in the past but it anticipated, the direction in which he was going to go in the future and truly revealed. His genius. Now, Rembrandt is famous for his biblical paintings, especially for his series on the passion. The Descent from the cross as one of the best known of these. 


And one of the thority says this that his paintings quote testified to an intimate and loving knowledge of the Bible. They're there. So marvelous aren't they? The characters are realistic not far off and removed from us not imaginary and at the same time there is an air of reverence and mysticism about his paintings. That show his personal attitude. 


Well. This brings me to my text and my text is from the verses that we read here in John 11. Especially the 28 verse and when she had so said she went away and called Mary or sister. Secretly saying the master is come and call us for the and I'd like us to focus our attention especially on those last words there. The master is come and call us for the, I don't think there is anyone in this room who would not say that Rembrandt. Was a master now, to ask the question. First of all, what is a master? Well, he certainly one who is in control very often. This name is applied to the pilot of a ship is that we call him the master of a ship. He's one who has delegated with responsibility for running the ship. Why not simply because they picked a random out of the crowd, but here is a man, who knows? 


He not only knows the long-range problem. But he sees the immediate action that must be taken. He's somebody who excites admiration somebody who's been steeped thoroughly in his subject, who knows that of, which he speaks. Now, there are various kinds of Master. There are military Masters. For example, that ruled by Forest, like Caesar or Napoleon. There are oratorical Masters people like Daniel Webster, who can weave a pattern of words and who can spell bind and influence multitudes. There are social Arbiters who know the rules of protocol and etiquette and we turn done. We post the name, a Vanderbilt to find out what we should do in a given occasion. 


There are scientific Masters people of Genius who spent their lives in the laboratory, who discovered, maybe cures for diseases or new unusual compounds that have not been discovered that can be put to use. For man. There are engineering Masters who can toss a bridge across a Waterway. Way and make a highway for human Commerce. 


All the Masters there is one to whom the term Master applies more than on a now. Some people don't like to apply the name Master to Jesus. They say that's the term that Jesus, that Judas used when he came to betray the Lord in the garden, but because the wrong person used it or because he used it in the wrong way, doesn't say there's anything wrong with a term itself. Can you think of any I won in all the pages of his trade, to whom the term. Lemaster could have be applied as much as to Jesus. Even now, we turn to his words. And there is something there for all ages. He said, suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them. Not for of such is the kingdom of heaven. 


There's something for older folks, let not your heart be troubled, you believe in God believe. Also in me. There's something for people that are destined than unaware really of his grace for God. So loved the world and that course goes beyond all the boundaries and beyond all the restrictions of class and be beyond all the ages of history and we can read Read the pages of Ruskin and be entertained and we can read the speeches of Churchill and be inspired. But isn't it a fact that Scholars and Statesmen both sigh ultimately in their last hours? Read me the words of the Lord, Jesus lay alone, breathe, the language of Eternity. 


What is the master? He's someone who's fresh and original somebody who has something unique stamp of Genius that hasn't been seen before. And even though there were people who said we will not let this man to rule over us. There were still many instances that we can point to that. Demonstrated his power when he was permitted to exerted. Certainly exhorted his power. When the physical forces, when he called, for the width of the waves to calm down, he was the master of emotion. 


That was nobody Rosalyn. By the way that I was Pacers that I doubt that anybody is why the machine will tell me when others won't. 


He was the master of spiritual things. He could calm. The trouble of emotions. He could speak the word of forgiveness and make it stick. And people know that he could forgive, he was not only the master of life and death but could call forth Lazarus from the dead, but most of all, he was the master of himself who won the pages of human history. Stand up and say, which of you convinces NEOS in and have complete silence because he was God's perfect man unsullied and pure and worthy to be the savior of the world. The one who is blameless the lamb without spot and without blemish offered for us, certainly of all people that we can look at all three. Ages. A is the perfect one. Even nature, who build himself as the Antichrist said that the greatest man in history is Jesus the master. Now, the verse goes on and it says, the master has come. Now folks it's nice to hear of promises that things are on the way to dream of things that may be and could be. But isn't it much nicer to say that our dreams have come true that the day has arrived at? Our ship has come in my wife. Always claims that our ship has been stuck on a sandbar somewhere. I think she's given up. Hope of it coming in but you know, there's there's nothing. 


Just waiting and longing, for something to happen. That doesn't happen. You know, you look for that letter, you keep wondering and waiting and there's the mailman. He's advancing towards you. There's the letter, you reach out and grab it. It's a bill. 


So here we have not only the promise that runs all down through the Old Testament, but but in the New Testament, we have Emmanuel God With Us. 


The first John 5:20 and we know that the Son of God is come and hath given us an understanding that we may know him. That is true. And that we are in him. That is true. Even in his son, Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. And that's the reason we sang. It, Christmastime Is that Joy to the World? The Lord is come. Let Earth receive her King. Emmanuel God With Us. He came into his own. 


That's good. And then that Melancholy nose and his own received him not but then there's that other Assurance but as many as received him to them gave you the power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. The master is come and call us. 


Different kinds of calls, their calls of alarm. Look up. There are cries for help their cries of warning. There are not only the bad cries, but there are the good cries. There's, they exultant know when a present has come or company is arrive. They're here. I hear that almost every morning by the way. 


That was the old hotel to shore. We used to have a little say. Oh, how the borders y'all, when they hear that dinner bell, three times a day. And can you think of any any more interesting or attractive call than the summons to dinner, you know, or to to mail, you smell it cooking and you're getting hungrier by the moment, but when finally, it's mealtime why let's of Uruguayan thing. And now there's a lot about coals in the Bible. 


For example, the Corinthian Christians who are in the worst kind of environment laura-leigh could read their and First Corinthians 12, Paul's letter to them, that they were called to be Saints. Who me a saint? Yes. You the people that all the world left side and there's a lot of all through the Bible there for for these things. For example, we're told to make our calling and election. Sure. And the only kind of Minister that n a church wants is the kind of man. Who is sure that God is calling to a work. 


And then to know that through the people he has been called to that place to serve. Now. The call of God is something that is not for our harm, but for our good the call of God is for Fellowship. It's it's for forgiveness. It's for guidance. It's not simply to marry but it's to each one of us because the first canape, apply. 


And that's the reason we sing the hymn, Softly and Tenderly. Jesus is calling calling for you. And for me, and it's wonderful to know that when the Lord went away. He said, I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you and he's, he comes and he calls us and he teaches us and he guides us day by day. And Moment by moment. We can trust that he 


Will do this. But then the best part may be of this verse is the last part. The master is come and call us for the it's not far off. Its not to some distant person. It's not simply for historical purposes. He's not looking over our shoulders. He looks as straight in the eye and like that figuring, you know, that they used to have in the Army poster. I want you. He points his finger to us and he says he's calling for us. I heard of two girls that were chatting. And one said, what does that fellows say? And the first girl said, he asked me if I were Christian and the second said why didn't you tell him? It was none of his business? And the first girl said, if you would have heard him, you would have thought it was his business. And that's the way it is with the Lord and said that every call in. The Bible is a person-to-person call. Have you ever noticed how many times in the Bible the names are used? I think it's important to remember that the names are there. Lots of people say, well, we need a shorter Bible that doesn't have the genealogies. But when you begin to get the personal element rooted up, why, what do you have left? Not much. It's all. 


Up in the air somewhere. And there's nothing practical nothing we can apply. But what about when the Lord said to Adam, Where Art, Thou? And what about on the Damascus Road, when he said to a man who was blinded by hatred, Saul Saul, why persecutest thou me? What about that? Life waking up in the darkness of the night hearing. His name called Samuel Samuel see, the Lord was calling people by their name. I'm going to speak about the names tonight, by the way, that it, it was a very personal thing and the Learned is talking to us, maybe sometime. 


Do you remember about a man who is going down through the streets? Handing out hundred dollar bills? And there are a lot of people that laugh that it because, you know, it doesn't happen every day of the week. But there were some people that didn't life who went up and took one and when they took it while then they were $100 richer and they had the last laugh. And that's the way it is with the Lord. He says, whosoever, but it's no good unless we accept him as our savior. ER and believe in him and say we're trusting him for salvation and for guidance, and for ruining our lives from this time and forever more because we're praying for his will to be done. And when we say that y, then we find out what life is all about. The date was September, 28th, 1882, 


It was about as unlikely as saying as you can imagine. It was a Sumptuous office on the Rue de Lafitte in Paris. And in back of the bridge desk was a French Aristocrat, Baron Edmond de Rothschild Suave tailored faultless, in his grooming sitting there, listening to the person in front of him and friend. Martin, and his book, The Rothschild hotels about this scene, says that in front of the desk, there was a man by the name of Rabbi Samuel mohel ever. He was a strange sight almost like an apparition with wild eyes and with her flying and with beard all coming out. And before he asked to speak, he asked Baron de Rothschild. If He could. Usual type of address or conversation. And if they could use the old rabbinical style, the kind of Singsong, and the baron gave him permission, and then like a race out of the past. He began swaying, back and forth and singing in this minor key. The age-old. Why of the rabbi's and began to tell? And he said that his mutt mission was to secure. Pure money for the Jewish colonies that were then over in what we call Israel today, and he began going on, was there the persecutions? They've undergone the sufferings like, were in during with the difficulties. They faced were there. Poverty's with her hopes with her aspiration. Finally, the baron cutting short. He said, huh? Which do you want? And the rabbi said, I don't want any money. I want you. Well, that was a historic thing and the rabbi was a very wise man, because he know that if he had a gift from Rothschild that would be the end of it. He would have contributed to that like cause that it would all have been over. But he knew that if he could get the heart and the love and the concern of this man that he would give more and more and in less. 


And that's exactly what he did. And in 1948. The state of Israel was born largely as a result of Rothschild, laying the groundwork and a bowl ever realizing that he had to get this man's affection. And that's the way it is with Christ. Basically, he doesn't want anything that we have. He doesn't just want our money or even an hour or this or that he wants us. What we are. And the words of Romans 10:9 and 10 were true that if Thou shalt confess with thy mouth, the Lord Jesus. And shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead. Thou shalt be saved for with the mouth, for with the heart, man, believeth unto righteousness. And with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. I hope you can say, with all your heart, this verse to die and know that it applies to you. 


The master is come and call us. For the Her father, we pray that thou will help us to answer his call with our faith and with our affection. And as we receive them into our hearts to Rejoice, that our names are written in the Book of Life. And we have thy spirit with us. Trevor if we've never made that decision, Lord, help us to make it now. When we pray it in the savior's thing. Amen.


 Hymn number 374.